# Windows-10to7-Database
The place to go for modifying Windows 10 to resemble Windows 7
With the passage of time, many legacy operating systems like Windows 7 have reached their end of life and have consequently lost support. Modern operating systems like Windows 10 have implemented modern protocols and APIs that have kept Windows in the modern technological sphere and hence, the market. Windows has also evolved visually, now expressing a minimalist visual style termed Metro Design Language 2 (MDL2). However, Windows has lost a lot of the charm that many users remembered fondly and helped to culminate in a positive reception for the OS line. However, it is actually possible to restore a substantial amount of components from Windows 7 in Windows 10. In fact, Windows 10 itself can be patched to allow the use of custom themes that permit for true OS-wide theming. Since 2020, collaborative efforts to transform Windows 10 into Windows 7 have ramped up. This is in large part due to increased awareness and education of how Windows works internally. Several discoveries have also been made thanks to reverse-engineering efforts. A substantial amount of these findings have been shared on Discord. Unfortunately, the live messaging nature of Discord means that these discoveries can be pushed up and become difficult if not impossible to find again. Thereby, the purpose of this blog is to provide a centralized database for documenting 10to7 Windows transformations while also providing informational material explaining how the mods work in the name of increasing knowledge. 

A Brief Spiel about Windows Aero

Windows 7 in particular was known for having an extremely user-friendly interface. One of the most memorable features of Windows 7 was the Aero design language which employed the artistic principle of skeuomorphism. In the aforementioned art style, objects (real or digital) are given ornamental features that do not contribute to their practicality but allow users to understand their function by linking them conceptually to the real deal. A good example of this is an LED candle. They are common purchases because they are affordable and eliminate the flammability hazard of a real candle. The design itself is not actually necessary to the practical purpose of an LED candle which is to emit light. However, by retaining the appearance of a candle, the LED candle is given significance since it can now be used in important sociocultural contexts (Christmas decorations, nativities, ofrendas, vigils). With regards to digital interfaces, a text editing program may be given visual assets such as lines, hole punches, or binder rings. Such elements help the user make the connection that the program is meant to write documents and therefore make the interface seem less intimidating. Lastly, displaying gradients or dynamic coloration on graphical elements when they are interacted with entice users to the interact with the interface more by providing not just visual feedback but also tiny dopamine rushes whenever a button glows. These principles are exactly what Windows Aero was designed to adhere to.

With the passage of time comes the inevitable feeling of nostalgia which clashes with the deprecation and removal of legacy Windows features such as theming. While some miss the visuals of Windows 7, others detest how Microsoft has restricted the user’s autonomy over personalization of their computer. Instead, the user has the choice of picking between light or dark modes and can pick accent colors which appear on some UI surfaces. Aero transparency effects as we knew them from the Windows Vista/7 are gone. Or are they? *VSauce chord*

Some aspects of Windows 7 remain in Windows 10 and 11, albeit to a minimal degree. For instance, some UI elements still have a blur effect, although the radius of this effect is very large and thus do not let a lot of detail through. In Windows Vista and 7, Aero Glass had a smaller blur radius. While this didn’t necessarily mean you could read things behind glass windows in detail (if you could then you wouldn’t really have Aero would you?), it did provide a more dynamic look to the glass effect and made it feel more “real.” Furthermore, the shaders Windows 7 utilized for its Aero Glass also had this really neat effect where inactive windows had an overexposed look. Such effects were handled by Windows’ Desktop Window Manager (DWM), which renders windows and handled effects like Aero Glass, 3D window animations (e.g., opening or closing), and 3D Flip. DWM remains in Windows 10 and 11, although it isn’t nearly as visually performative as it was in Vista or 7.

Skeuomorphism has actually made somewhat of a comeback lately. This summer, Apple released iOS 26 which introduced the “Liquid Glass” design language. Like Windows Aero, Liquid Glass introduced system-wide glass surfaces which also blur the elements behind them. It is the first large-scale, mainstream revisiting of digital skeuomorphism since Windows Aero (at least in my opinion). This is not surprising, as there has always been a community of people nostalgic for older operating systems that were staple experiences of their childhood. There is also an element of resistance. As mentioned before, Windows 8 presented a radical change in the appearance of the operating system, and since then Microsoft has not provided a native means of applying the Aero theme. This is problematic in principle for a lot of people since it marks the beginning of Microsoft taking autonomy over personal computers away from consumers and in the grander scheme of things, is reflective of a late-stage capitalist trend wherein corporations abandon service to the user in favor or whatever makes the most profit. Perhaps more upsetting to some is the fact that Aero persisted pretty late into the development of Windows 8, hinting that it was removed last minute – perhaps at the direction of higher-ups.

Windows modding represents a sort of pushback against this. A manifestation of the belief that people can have true autonomy over their personal devices and truly customize their OS to their liking. It is a statement on the meaning of ownership, a concept which today is becoming skewed. A good example is the concept of streaming services. At first it was Blockbuster who sold VHS tapes you physically owned and placed into your own personal VHS player. Following the obsolescence of VHS, Netflix offered an online streaming service and had every show imaginable. Heck, they even still went out of their way to deliver rental DVDs to your home. Today, several streaming services exist and operate on a subscription model – you do not OWN the content you want to watch anymore.

This isn’t even mentioning the heavy integration of Copilot AI into Windows 11. Windows 11 represents a symptom of the AI syndrome that has manifested itself into today’s society. The Microsoft of today is very different from the Microsoft that released Windows 7 and every OS beforehand. In an age where AI poses real environmental, socioemotional, and intellectual threats, it can be comforting to know one can transform their OS into something that is as close as one can get today to a truly personal, local OS. 

A Distinction between Theming and Restoring

I will start by establishing why I don't call it a 10to7 "theming" repository. Theming is certainly a part of a good 10to(insert OS) setup. Namely, applying a patched visual style theme (.msstyles) to Windows 10 so it actually looks like the OS you're trying to mimic. One must also consider theming as it relates to functionality however. You can simply apply a Windows 7 msstyles to Windows 10 and call it a day, sure. However, your immersion with your theme may break if you use a program that uses Windows 10's MDL2 style instead of your theme's Aero style. 

Thankfully, you can theme your system and still restore legacy components from Windows 7 to incorporate true aspects of Windows 7 functionality into the modern Windows 10 environment. I would wager that about 80-90% of what existed in Windows 7 can be ported successfully to Windows 10. In this way, you can strike a genuinely good balance of theming your OS to look like another while also ensuring it functions like the target OS too.

Anyways,

Hope you enjoyed the read! I plan on expanding this blog and recruiting help.
